FCE-1573: Livesteaming mobile docs (#117)
fishjam-cloud/documentation: docs/react-native/livestreaming.mdx

---
sidebar_position: 9
title: "Livestreaming"
description: "How to use Fishjam for livestreaming"
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";
import ConfigurePermissions from "./_components/configure-permissions.mdx";

# Livestreaming

> If your case involves streaming live audio and/or video one-to-many with low latency, Fishjam provides the exact tools you need. This scenario is 20% cheaper than videoconferencing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your case involves streaming live audio and/or video from one source to many viewers with low latency, Fishjam provides the exact tools you need. This scenario is 20% cheaper than videoconferencing.
```

## How to start streaming?

> First, you need to create a room of a special `livestream` type using our Server SDKs. If you are using sandbox, the [Room Manager](/room-manager#how-do-i-use-it) also allows you to create such room.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, you need to create a room with the `livestream` type using our Server SDKs. If you are using our sandbox, the [Room Manager](/room-manager#how-do-i-use-it) also allows you to create such a room.
```

As the streaming is one-to-many, you can have only one streaming participant in that room.  
To start streaming, simply use a peer token to [join the room as you would normally do](/react-native/connecting).

## How to receive the stream?

Fishjam SDK provides a [`useLivestream`](/api/mobile/functions/useLivestream) hook to receive the broadcasted stream.
In order to use it, you need to generate a viewer token using our Server SDKs (Room Manager also provides this functionality as an example).

> The `useLivestream` hook will handle the process of receiving the stream and will forward it to `LivestreamView`.

Reviewer: This sentence is a bit enigmatic. LivestreamView isn't mentioned anywhere earlier

:::info

This guide assumes you already finished either the [Quick Setup](/react-native/quick-setup) or [Installation](/react-native/installation) guide.

:::

You can also use Fishjam to livestream your content to users.

In order to do this you need to create two flows.

1. The first flow will be used to stream the content.
2. The second flow will be used to receive the livestream.

## Livestreaming Example

> 

Reviewer: This looks like it should be at the start of the doc

---
sidebar_position: 9
title: "Livestreaming"
description: "How to use Fishjam for livestreaming"
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";
import ConfigurePermissions from "./_components/configure-permissions.mdx";

# Livestreaming

This section provides examples on how to quickly set up livestreaming in React Native using Fishjam.  
You can learn more about [livestreaming in Fishjam](/livestreaming) in our documentation.

## How to start streaming?

### Prerequisites

- [A room of `livestream` type](/livestreaming)
- A [peer token](/glossary#peer-token) generated for that room

> To start streaming, simply [join the room](/react-native/connecting) and [stream as you would normally do](/react-native/start-streaming).

Reviewer: **suggestion:** 
```suggestion
To start streaming, simply [join the room](/react-native/connecting) and [stream as you normally would](/react-native/start-streaming).
```

Reviewer 2: d

:::warning
Livestreaming scenario allows only one video and one audio track to be sent at a time.  
You cannot stream the camera and share a screen at the same time.
:::

## How to receive the stream?

### Prerequisites

- A peer connected and streaming in a room of `livestream` type
- A [viewer token](/livestreaming) generated for that room

Fishjam SDK provides a [`useLivestream`](/api/mobile/functions/useLivestream) hook to receive the broadcasted stream.
Pass the viewer token to the `connect` method of the hook to establish a connection with Fishjam.

> Once the connection is established, the `LivestreamView` component will render the video stream.

Reviewer: **suggestion:** making LivestreamView a link would be nice

The `LivestreamView` component will render the video stream once you connect to Fishjam using the connect method from [`useLivestream`](/api/mobile/functions/useLivestream).

```tsx
import { useCallback, useEffect } from "react";
import { View } from "react-native";
import {
  useLivestream,
  LivestreamView,
} from "@fishjam-cloud/react-native-client";

const YOUR_APP_ID = "";

export function Receiver() {
  const { connect, disconnect } = useLivestream();

  const handleConnect = useCallback(async () => {
    try {
      console.log("Getting stream details...");
      const { token } = await getViewerToken("TestRoom");
      await connect(`https://fishjam.io/api/v1/live`, token);
      console.log("Receiving...");
    } catch (err) {
      console.log(err);
    }
  }, [connect]);

  useEffect(() => {
    handleConnect();

    return () => {
      disconnect();
    };
  }, [handleConnect, disconnect]);

  return (
    <View style={{ flex: 1, justifyContent: "center", alignItems: "center" }}>
      <LivestreamView
        style={{ width: "90%", aspectRatio: 1, backgroundColor: "black" }}
      />
    </View>
  );
}

async function getViewerToken(roomName: string) {

>   // This will work ONLY for the Sandbox App

Reviewer: **suggestion:** it would be nice to lead the reader on what to do in a production app from here, e.g. a link to docs or something like that

Reviewer 2: d

---
sidebar_position: 9
title: "Livestreaming"
description: "How to use Fishjam for livestreaming"
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";
import ConfigurePermissions from "./_components/configure-permissions.mdx";

# Livestreaming

This section provides examples on how to quickly set up livestreaming in React Native using Fishjam.  
You can learn more about [livestreaming in Fishjam](/livestreaming) in our documentation.

## How to start streaming?

### Prerequisites

- [A room of `livestream` type](/livestreaming)
- A [peer token](/glossary#peer-token) generated for that room

To start streaming, simply [join the room](/react-native/connecting) and [stream as you normally would](/react-native/start-streaming).

:::warning
Livestreaming scenario allows only one video and one audio track to be sent at a time.  
You cannot stream the camera and share a screen at the same time.

> :::

Reviewer 3: There is a similar section on `livestreaming` page, we should choose the same message for both of them.

> :::

Reviewer 2: see now
